MERN__Mongo Express React Node Blockchain Messenger

This application is the result of research for my master thesis.

It is an online messaging application between 2 users per conversation, providing a satisfactory degree of reliability and certification in terms of message content, which remains unchanged and is protected through Blockchain technology. This Blockchain technology is used through the BigchainDB tool/API and also a 'local' copy of the blockchain is stored in a traditional MongoDB / NoSQL database. Thus, a hybrid certified messaging model is created in which the local computer acts as a node of the BigchainDB blockchain network and the two databases work together to obtain the result of the immutable, decentralized and distributed messaging application.

In summary, the operation of the application can be divided into 3 stages. Initially, when a user opens the application he encounters the Login view, where he/she can enter his/her details (username, password) and log in to his/her account or navigate to the other page of Sign-Up, register in the application and then perform the login. If the login is successful the user goes to the Lobby view, where there is a list of all registered users of the application and can choose who he/she wants to chat with and 'enter' in the conversation. The 3rd and last stage is the Conversation which includes the live chat of the 2 users and there we have all the previous messages that have been exchanged between them. Every message a user sends, is first sent to the BigchainDB blockchain as a transaction object where it is verified and safely stored in encrypted form. After that, the same message object is stored as a block in the local (manually created) blockchain of MongoDB, meaning that each message is one and only block. If and when something is deleted or edited in the local blockchain, we are fetching it from the BigchainDB and reconstructing the blockchain from scratch. In case something like this happens during a conversation, the users are informed with a pop-up message, wait 5 seconds for the blockchain to return to its normal state and finally are able to chat again. 
